Alexandra Talty ,   CONTRIBUTOR
I cover personal finance and travel.  

Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
TWEET THIS
in 2016 more Americans are planning on visiting a national park, thanks to centennial celebrations.
Found to be worth $92 billion in a recent study by professors from Colorado State University and Harvard University, the National Park System is turning one hundred years old today.

Ahead of this momentous anniversary, more Americans are heading to the country’s jewels than ever before.

A view of Yosemite National Park, the first National Park in America. Photo credit: National Parks Foundation, Kristopher Schoenleber. 
A view of Yosemite National Park, the first National Park in America. Photo credit: National Parks Foundation, Kristopher Schoenleber.

In honor of the anniversary, all sites that charge an entrance fee are offering free admission between August 25th – August 28th, September 24th and November 11. To avoid crowds on those days, experts recommend to walk a mile on a trail outside of a main attraction.

It seems as if the thirst for the great outdoors isn’t limited to day trips. While hotel spending has remained flat from 2015 to 2016, spending at campgrounds rose 3 percent, according to a recent Bank of America report based on their consumers’ spending. The report also found that in 2016 more Americans are planning on visiting a national park, thanks to centennial celebrations.

However, visiting a national park does not require a tent. When visiting national parks, 42 percent of visitors opt for camping, as opposed to 66 percent for motel or hotel stays, according to a recent report by AAA.

“It’s critical that people understand that national parks are relevant to their lives. Most importantly because they’re magnificent, full of history and grandeur, and they were set aside for all of us,” says National Park Foundation President Will Shafroth. “Today’s millennials are tomorrow’s leaders; in order for our parks to survive and thrive in a second century, people need to feel connected to them and want to protect them.”

Recommended by Forbes
9 National Parks Every American Should See
17 Quirky Ways To Save Extra Money This Summer
Colorado Office of Economic DevelopmentVoice: Hackers Beware: National Cybersecurity Center Boots Up In Colorado

Beat The Winter Blues With Caribbean Camping
Vegas On A Budget: 6 Inexpensive Activities In Sin City
MOST POPULAR Photos: The World's Highest-Paid Actresses 2016
TRENDING ON FACEBOOK Oakland Raiders File Trademark Applications For Las Vegas Raiders
MOST POPULAR Photos: The Most Expensive Home Listing in Every State 2016
MOST POPULAR How To Write Better Emails

Since 2015, millennials interest in national parks has grown 18 percent, thanks in part to the Find Your Park or Encuentra Tu Parque movement, according to the National Park Foundation. The group hopes to encourage younger generations as they are viewed as stewards of the overall system.
